# GIMP

GIMP (/ɡɪmp/ GHIMP; GNU Image Manipulation Program) is a free and open-source raster graphics editor used for image manipulation (retouching) and image editing, free-form drawing, transcoding between different image file formats, and more specialized tasks.

GIMP is released under GPLv3+ license and is available for Linux, macOS, and Microsoft Windows.

# Extensions

An animated GIF generated by GAP plugin
## GIMP Animation Package (GAP)
A GIMP plug-in for creating animations. GAP can save animations in several formats, including GIF and AVI.The animation function relies on GIMP's layering and image file name numbering capability. Animations are created either by placing each frame on its own layer (in other words, treating each layer as an animation cel), or by manipulating each numbered file as if it were a frame in the video: moving, rotating, flipping, changing colors, applying filters, etc. to the layers by taking advantage of interpolation within function calls (plug-in usage), within a specified frame range. The resulting project can be saved as an animated GIF or encoded video file. GAP also provides programmed layer transitions, frame rate change, and move paths, allowing the creation of sophisticated animations.[135]
## GIMP-ML
A set of machine learning Python plugins for GIMP. It enables the use of computer vision to the conventional image editing pipeline. Applications from deep learning such as monocular depth estimation, semantic segmentation, mask generative adversarial networks, image super-resolution, de-noising and coloring have been incorporated with GIMP through Python-based plugins.
## GIMP Paint Studio (GPS)
A collection of brushes and accompanying tool presets, aimed at artists and graphic designers. It speeds up repetitive tasks and can save tool settings between sessions.
## Resynthesizer
A set of plugins originally developed as part of Paul Harrison's PhD thesis providing "context-aware fill" features, including heal selection, heal transparency, uncrop and general resynthesize (the other plugins are user-friendly specialisations of this plugin). The plugin is now maintained by Lloyd Konneker.[139][140] Some uses for the plugin are creating more of a texture, including creation of tileable textures, removing objects from images for touching up photos, and creating themed images.

# Forks and derivatives
Because of the free and open-source nature of GIMP, several forks, variants and derivatives of the computer program have been created to fit the needs of their creators. While GIMP is cross-platform, variants of GIMP may not be. These variants are neither hosted nor linked on the GIMP site. The GIMP site does not host GIMP builds for Windows or Unix-like operating systems either, although it does include a link to a Windows build.

## Variants include:

## CinePaint: Formerly Film Gimp, it is a fork of GIMP version 1.0.4, used for frame-by-frame retouching of feature film. CinePaint supports up to 32-bit IEEE-floating point color depth per channel, as well as color management and HDR. CinePaint is used primarily within the film industry due mainly to its support of high-fidelity image formats. It is available for BSD, Linux, and macOS.
## GIMP classic: A patch against GIMP v2.6.8 source code created to undo changes made to the user interface in GIMP v2.4 through v2.6.[125] A build of GIMP classic for Ubuntu is available.[126] As of March 2011, a new patch could be downloaded that patches against the experimental GIMP v2.7.
## GIMP Portable: A portable version of GIMP for Microsoft Windows XP or later that preserves brushes and presets between computers[127]
## GIMPshop: Derivative that aim to replicate the Adobe Photoshop in some form.[citation needed] Development of GIMPshop was halted in 2006 and the project disavowed by the developer, Scott Moschella, after an unrelated party registered "GIMPshop" as part of an Internet domain name and passed off the website as belonging to Moschella while accepting donations and making revenue from advertising but passing on none of the income to Moschella
## GimPhoto: GimPhoto[128] follows the Photoshop-UI tradition of GIMPshop. More modifications are possible with the GimPad tool. GimPhoto stands at version 24.1 for Linux and Windows (based on GIMP v2.4.3) and version 26.1 on macOS[129] (based on GIMP v2.6.8). Installers are included for Windows 7, 8.1, and 10; macOS 10.6+; Ubuntu 14 and Fedora; as well as source code. Only one developer is at work in this project, so fast updates and new versions based on Gimp 2.8.x or 2.9.x are not planned.
## McGimp: An independent port for macOS that is aim to run GIMP directly on this platform, and integrated multiple plug-ins intended to optimize photos.[130]
## Seashore: easier to use image editing application for macOS[131]
## Glimpse: A fork of GIMP created in 2019 with the intention of improving and eventually replacing the GIMP user interface. The original motivation to fork was the GIMP maintainers' choice not to rename the application despite criticism over the course of its existence that the name "GIMP", which originated as a reference to a scene in the R-rated film Pulp Fiction,[6] was offputting to potential users and project contributors, as well as liable to being confused with the ableist slur gimp.[132] The project periodically passes a share of the donations it receives back to the GIMP project and is willing to also contribute code changes.[133]
